[PEACEFUL MUSIC]
>> Welcome to House
of Well-being.
You're listening to the
resilience hypnotherapy audio.
In a moment, the
hypnosis will begin.
But before it
does, I'd just like
to remind you that the
following audio contains
powerful hypnotic
suggestions that
aim to help you reach a
deep level of relaxation,
so please be sure that
wherever you are listening
to this audio, you're in a
safe and comfortable place
free from distractions where
you can fully relax and let go.
Please don't listen to this
if you're driving or operating
machinery.
Should there be an emergency,
your subconscious mind
will alert you, and you'll
easily come out of hypnosis.
But right now,
there's nothing at all
you need to do apart
close your eyes,
relax, lie back,
and let go and enjoy
all those peaceful feelings
and all the benefits that
come with it.
In this deep and special
sleep, your subconscious mind,
for your safe keeping,
monitors everything
that's happening around you.
So these suggestions, because
they're for your benefit,
go directly to your subconscious
mind where they're accepted
and these thoughts
become established,
firmly fixed deeply
in your inner mind,
embedded so these suggestions
remain with you long after you
open your eyes, helping you to
change those things you want
to change for your own sake.
And these new thoughts
help you begin to change
the things you want to change.
And these changes allow you to
enjoy your life more and more.
And I want you now to
imagine that you're
checking your body to ensure
you become totally relaxed.
As your muscles relax, just
let your mind relax also.
Beginning with your
feet, feel your toes.
Stretch them and feel
the texture of what
your feet are resting on.
And now begin to
tighten your calves,
and allow them to relax now.
Allow that relaxation to
spread past your ankles,
up your calves to the
back of your knees
and feel those muscles
easing, resting comfortably.
Now the large muscles of
your thighs, pull them tight.
Be aware of those
large muscles tensing.
Now relax those muscles.
Feel them lengthen and
resting comfortably.
Feel your legs as they sink even
deeper as you relax even more.
And notice how rhythmic
your breathing is becoming.
And now your stomach muscles,
pull them together gently.
And now let them expand
and relax comfortably.
Your shoulders and back
muscles, flex your shoulders.
Feel those muscles
pull across your back.
And now let your shoulder
slouch as you relax the muscles.
And notice how your spine
sinks deeper into your chair
as you relax even more deeply.
And notice how easy and regular
your breathing has become.
Now your fingertips and
fingers, clench them now.
Feel the tension, and
now allow them to relax.
Allow the relaxation to spread
up your arms all the way up
to your neck.
And make sure your
neck is comfortable,
with your head in
an easy position.
Tighten up your neck muscles.
Now let those columns
of muscles loosen
as the muscles relax
and you allow your neck
to sink into the cushions
into a comfortable position.
Your facial muscles are flat
and stretched comfortably
across your face.
Squeeze up your face.
Feel the tension.
And now relax those
muscles and feel
the lengthening and softening,
relaxing more than ever before.
You can now feel the air
temperature against your skin,
and it feels smooth
and comfortable.
And now you can
allow the relaxation
to spread onto your scalp,
knowing that you're relaxed
throughout your body,
from the top of your head
to the tips of your toes.
Your body is now loose, and
limp, and heavy, and relaxed.
Notice how your body
is sinking deeper
into relaxation
as your breathing
becomes more regular and easy.
And in a moment I'll
count slowly from 1 to 10.
And with each number, you
drift deeper and deeper
into peaceful relaxation.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and
10, now feeling deeply relaxed.
And you find it easy to
focus your attention,
and you imagine
things very clearly.
I want you to
imagine that you're
standing on a balcony which
has steps leading down
to a beautiful garden.
And as you look
into that garden,
you see it surrounded
with lovely trees,
ensuring the garden is private,
secluded, and peaceful.
There are flower beds
set in the lovely lawn.
And further along is a
waterfall flowing into a stream.
You listen to the
sound of the water.
As you look around
you, you see the trees,
and you hear a faint sound
of a bird in the distance,
adding to the feeling
of deep relaxation
through your entire being.
If you look more
closely, you'll see
that there are five steps
leading down to the garden,
and then a small path that
leads to the waterfall.
And in a moment, we'll
walk down the steps.
And with each step, you
go deeper and deeper
into relaxation.
So let's begin.
As you put your foot
on the first step,
you feel yourself going
deeper into relaxation.
Down onto the
second step, as you
feel your foot firmly
placed onto the step,
you feel a wonderful relief
as you drift even deeper
into relaxation now.
Down onto the third step,
feeling wonderfully free
and so, so relaxed.
As your foot reaches
for the fourth step,
another wave of relaxation
drifts through your whole body.
Down onto the fifth step
now, feeling even more deeply
relaxed than ever before.
And now as you find yourself
standing on the lawn,
you see a little way
ahead a waterfall.
And you listen to the water
as it gently splashes.
You can notice the birds singing
in the distance and the sound
of the trees gently swaying.
And a little to the side is
a comfortable garden bench.
You notice the
color of the bench.
And in a moment, I'd like
you to walk over to the bench
and sit down on the bench.
And now you sit down,
and you're surprised
at just how comfortable it is.
And then you're
even more relaxed.
As you sit down on the bench,
you take a deep breath.
And as you breathe out, you
feel a wave of relaxation
go through your
whole body, relaxing
every muscle, every nerve.
As you breathe in, you
breathe in positive thoughts.
And as you breathe out, you
breathe out negative thoughts,
leaving room for more positive
thoughts on this journey ahead.
And now that you're in a
deep state of relaxation,
I'm going to talk to
you about resilience.
And perhaps you define
resilience as the ability
to recover from setbacks,
adapt well to change,
or keep going in the
face of adversity.
But really, it's just
your ability to keep calm
and to carry on in the face
of any setbacks or difficulty.
So for instance, you may
have had issues at work,
or relationship problems,
or health struggles.
Whatever the setback
may be from now on in,
you allow your subconscious
mind to process
the initial emotions,
whether that's
sadness, anger, or confusion.
And from now on, you're
going to let it go.
You no longer allow
those negative thoughts
to stay in your head
space for too long.
Doing that's called
mental agility,
and you now have the ability
to switch gears in your mind
from reacting to stress
to responding to stress.
Reacting, after
all, is instinctive
and emotionally driven.
Responding, however, it's a
much more objective approach,
and we're going to
focus on that now.
You're no longer led
by your emotions.
Instead, you take a
step back and see things
much more rationally and
much more objectively.
And sometimes, you
may feel the need
to talk through any problems
or, issues and that's
absolutely fine.
Picking up the phone to family,
or colleagues, or friends
can help you to see things
from a new perspective.
You stop trying to solve
issues on your own,
and instead, you
reach out for help.
And when it's time
for you to do so,
you know that others will
provide that support to you.
You ensure that you have
the right work-life balance,
finding hobbies outside of work,
a side hustle that fulfills you
or simply nurtures
the relationship
you have with others.
You know having a good
work-life balance helps
you to build your resilience,
helping you to see that there's
more to life outside any issues
or setbacks that are happening.
You enjoy using
exercise as a tool
to help you take the
stress out of your day.
Maybe that's going for
a long walk, or run,
or taking an exercise
class, releasing energy,
letting go of tension,
and fueling your body
with endorphins, helping you
to feel mentally stronger
and capable to take on more.
You take care of your
health, taking regular breaks
if you work, drinking
less caffeine and alcohol
and eating much more mindfully.
You recognize that
you're only human.
You make mistakes
same as everyone else.
So when you encounter
difficulties,
if you ever feel upset or anger,
you know that's totally normal.
Beating yourself up for
overreacting or getting
emotional only serve to add to
any burdens currently plaguing
you.
So you allow yourself
to feel compassionate
for the number one person
you need to worry about,
which is you.
When you experience
problems or setbacks,
once you've taken the
time to reflect on them,
you take action.
You think about what you
can do to help the matter,
to rectify the problem,
or aid the situation.
Your mind is alight with
ideas, solutions, and thoughts
on how you can
improve the situation.
You don't dwell
on the negatives.
You focus on the solutions now.
You never ignore the setbacks
and obstacles for too long.
Instead, you take what
you've been given,
and you truly learn
to develop resilience.
Slowly and steadily,
your resilience
is getting stronger
and stronger each day.
You're more compassionate
and kinder to yourself.
You have the ability
to reflect more,
to think more about
your comeback plan
if you need one, all the
time thinking rationally
instead of emotionally,
becoming more and more resilient
each and every day now.
You know success relies on
an individual's capacity
to cope, and even
thrive, when faced
with stress and adversity,
so you remain relaxed, calm,
and in control of all
situations at all times,
recognizing that if you
feel calm and relaxed,
you deal with any issues in
a more rational manner, step
by step, day by day because
everything is going to be OK.
You have faith in what you're
doing, feeling more and more
in control each and every
day, becoming more and more
resilient, hour by hour.
You now have a huge
ability to bounce back
when encountering
challenges that
are an inevitable part of life.
You know with practice,
resilience can be learned,
and you're learning how
to be more resilient, more
and more each day.
Resilience consists of a
cluster of factors, behaviors,
thoughts, actions, attitudes.
And what you need to bounce
back from immense stress
is commitment,
control, and calmness,
and you now have these
three things in threefold--
commitment, control,
and calmness.
You believe that it's best
to stay involved when there's
a setback, so you're
showing commitment,
rather than to pull out.
And you keep trying to influence
the outcomes in which you
are involved, so
you're taking control.
And rather than give up, you
remain rational and unemotional
at all times, staying calm--
commitment, control, and calm.
You treat problems as
a learning process,
developing the habit
of using challenges
as opportunities to
acquire or master
skills and build achievement.
You avoid making a
drama out of a crisis.
You know stress and
change are part of life.
How you interpret and respond
to these events in your life
has a big impact on how
stressful you find them,
so you learn not to respond
in a negative fashion,
becoming more and more
resilient each and every day.
And each day, you
celebrate your successes.
You take time at the end of the
day to review what went well,
and you congratulate yourself.
You train your mind
to look for successes
rather than dwelling on
negativity and failure.
You take positive action.
Doing something in
the face of adversity
brings you a sense of
control, even if it
doesn't remove the difficulty.
You have a positive view
of yourself, developing
your confidence daily and your
ability to solve problems,
and trusting your instincts
helps to build resiliency.
And as you keep a
realistic perspective,
you place challenging
or painful events
in the broader context of
lifelong personal development.
Your optimism is growing day
by day now, no more absolutist
thoughts.
Nothing is ever
wholly good or bad.
You're realistic, but
positive, in your thinking.
If we allow our thinking to
dictate how we view something,
it'll take over, and you
now make your thinking work
for your own benefit, rather
than letting it override you
with doubt or by seeing
only the bad side,
becoming more and more
resilient each and every day.
As you become more
reflective, and in tune,
and aware of what
triggers lead to stress,
this provides you
with the opportunity
to prepare and gather
resources so you
you're better able
to bounce back,
becoming more and more
resilient each and every day.
And these hypnotic
suggestions are now
embedded in your
subconscious mind,
and they'll become
more and more powerful
as the days and weeks go by.
And in a moment, I'm going
to count up from 1 to 5
to awaken you.
And at the count of five, you'll
be wide awake, fully refreshed,
alert, and feeling
fantastic, bringing back
with you all the
wonderful new feelings.
Coming back now with
1, 2, 3, 4, and 5.
Eyes open when you're ready.